flask/README.md, before:

# CapstoneExploration/flask

A subdirectory to explore the use of [flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/) for our project's frontend.

## To Do List
- Explore [quickstart guide](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/quickstart/) in-depth
- Configure HTML rendering templates with jinja, as described in the [quickstart guide](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/quickstart/)
- Add bootstrap for aesthetic upgrades
- Load an iframe basemap from an external source (Google/OpenStreetMap)
- Load data layers from external APIs (NOAA/NASA)

## Activity Log

#### 17 January 2022
- Added demo flask app in `app.py`
- Run this demo by:
  - Opening a powershell/cmd/terminal in `CapstoneExploration/flask`, then
  - Running `flask run`, and
  - Clicking on the localhost link returned by flask to view the webpage.

#### 20 January 2022
- Created skeleton website, without any styling yet
  - Added navigation bar to each page that we expect to have, along with the cooresponding pages
  - Added filler text to each page about what we plan to implement

Commit message:

setup basic flask app with bootstrap, navbar, footer, scaffold, testing

flask/README.md, after:

# CapstoneExploration/flask

A subdirectory to explore the use of [flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/) for our project's frontend.

## To Do List
- Explore [quickstart guide](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/quickstart/) in-depth
- Configure HTML rendering templates with jinja, as described in the [quickstart guide](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/quickstart/)
- Add bootstrap for aesthetic upgrades
- Load an iframe basemap from an external source (Google/OpenStreetMap)
- Load data layers from external APIs (NOAA/NASA)

## Activity Log

#### 22 January 2022
- Restructured flask app files to comply with [standard layout](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/tutorial/layout/)
  - `wsgi.py` boots the app
  - `__init__.py` initializes the app
  - `routes.py` defines url pathways for the app
  - Files in `static/` contain images, data, style files, etc. not modified by the app
  - Files in `templates/` render HTML views
  - Files in `tests/` serve to test functionalities of the app
- Implemented bootstrap CSS styling, navbar, and footer
- Implemented jinja base HTML template in `application/templates/base.html`
- Added basic test in `tests/test_init.py`
  - To run a test in PyCharm, right click on the `flask` subdirectory and select "Mark Directory as > Sources Root", then click the play button within each test file. For more, see [this PyCharm post](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/performing-tests.html).
  - To run all tests in the `flask/test` subdirectory from command line, set your working directory to `CapstoneExploration/flask` then run `python -m unittest`. This will discover all tests within `flask/test` and run them at once. For more, see [this StackOverflow post](https://stackoverflow.com/a/43733357).


#### 20 January 2022
- Created skeleton website, without any styling yet
  - Added navigation bar to each page that we expect to have, along with the corresponding pages
  - Added filler text to each page about what we plan to implement

#### 17 January 2022
- Added demo flask app in `app.py`
- Run this demo by:
  - Opening a powershell/cmd/terminal in `CapstoneExploration/flask`, then
  - Setting environment variables with `export FLASK_APP="wsgi"` in bash or `$env:FLASK_APP="wsgi"` command in Powershell 
  - Running `flask run`, and
  - Clicking on the localhost link returned by flask to view the webpage.
